OSDOCS-14809: Capacity Reservations in ROSA HCP (#100445)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/creating-a-machine-pool-cli-capres.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * rosa_cluster_admin/rosa_nodes/rosa-managing-worker-nodes.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="creating_machine_pools_cli_capres_{context}"]
= Creating a machine pool with Capacity Reservations using the {rosa-cli}

> You can create a new machine pool with Capacity Reservations by using the {rosa-cli}. Both On-Demand Capacity Reservations and Capacity Blocks for ML are supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can create a new machine pool with Capacity Reservations by using the {rosa-cli-first}. Both On-Demand Capacity Reservations and Capacity Blocks for ML are supported.
```
We have a second attribute for the first mention of the ROSA CLI. You can either use it here or in the title (line 7), based on OCP style guides. I usually prefer to spell out acronyms in the text rather than bog down the title, but it is good either way.

Author: Actually {rosa-cli-first} was there first. And I changed it to {rosa-cli} following the RHEL docs best practices, and thinking that ROSA CLI (same as previously ROSA) is the most widely-used and commonly-understood abbreviation, and that expanding it at the start of every single module is an overkill.

RHEL writers don't expand the product name in every module, since customers know they've come to the RHEL docs to read about RHEL.
That was the only exception though.

Sorry I was assuming things. I'll make sure to opt for {rosa-cli-first} at first occurrence.

> You can create a new machine pool with Capacity Reservations by using the {rosa-cli}. Both On-Demand Capacity Reservations and Capacity Blocks for ML are supported.

Author: AWS seems to be using this product name as a proper name and doesn't expand ML in their docs. I haven't checked _all_ AWS docs, of course.

To work around this, they expand ML in the text. See the beginning of: https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AWSEC2/latest/UserGuide/ec2-capacity-blocks.html

And since we require that customers reserve capacity with AWS, they'll learn about reservation types in AWS docs, WDYT?

NOTE: Currently, upgrading these machine pools or enabling autoscaling is not suppored.

.Prerequisites

> * You installed and configured the {rosa-cli} of version 1.2.57 or above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You installed and configured the {rosa-cli} version 1.2.57 or above.
```

* You logged in to your Red{nbsp}Hat account using the {rosa-cli}.

> * You created a {product-title} cluster of version 4.19 or above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* You created a {product-title} cluster version 4.19 or above.
```

* A cluster must already have a machine pool that is not using a Capacity Reservation or taints. This machine pool mush have at least 2 worker nodes.
* You have a Capacity Reservation ID and capacity is reserved for the instance type required in the Availability Zone of the machine pool that you are creating.

.Procedure

> To add a machine pool with reserved capacity, create the machine pool and define the instance type, worker node count, and a Capacity Reservation ID:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Create the machine pool and define the instance type, worker node count, and Capacity Reservation ID by running the following command:
```
One-step procedures are bulleted per the style guide. We also tend to begin all commands with the phrase "by running the following command" for stylistic consistency.

--
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create machinepool --cluster=<cluster-name> \
                          --name=<machine_pool_id> \
                          --replicas=<replica_count> \
                          --capacity-reservation-id cr-<capacity_reservation_id> \
                          --instance-type=<instance_type> \
                          --subnet <subnet_id>
----

where:

> `--name=<machine_pool_id>`:: Specifies the name of the machine pool.

Reviewer: If you follow the [Red Hat Supplementary Guide for definition lists](https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#commands-in-code-blocks), it looks like some of the text needs to be bold and you may only want to include the text in the carrots <>.
```suggestion
*<machine_pool_id>*:: Specifies the name of the machine pool.
```
This more closely aligns with our style guide. I didn't fix the entire list, but they should all look the same.

Author: Good catch.
That part of the SSG has been recently updated (presented by Emily Murphy on Oct 14th) to work around callouts, so it's cool we'll meet the most recent requirement.

`--replicas=<replica_count>`:: Specifies the number of compute nodes to provision. If you deployed {product-title} using a single availability zone, this defines the number of compute nodes to provision to the machine pool for the zone. If you deployed your cluster using multiple availability zones, this defines the number of compute nodes to provision in total across all zones and the count must be a multiple of 3. The `--replicas` argument is required when autoscaling is not configured.

> `--capacity-reservation-id cr-<capacity_reservation_id>`:: You get an ID in the `cr-<capacity_reservation_id>` format when you purchase a Capacity Reservation from AWS. The ID can be for both On-Demand Capacity Reservations or Capacity Blocks for ML, you do not need to specify the reservation type.

Reviewer: The text for this last one doesn't follow the same pattern as the ones before. For example, all the other lines begin with "Specifies..." Can this be re-written to follow a similar style, rather than move to the second person (you)?

Author: I considered that too and saw that some other parameters had the you-based descriptions. But since the updated SSG now only mentions "Specifies...", let's bring everything to this format.

`--instance-type=<instance_type>`:: Optional: Sets the instance type for the compute nodes in your machine pool. The instance type defines the vCPU and memory allocation for each compute node in the pool. Replace `<instance_type>` with an instance type. The default is `m5.xlarge`. You cannot change the instance type for a machine pool after the pool is created.

> `--subnet <subnet_id>`:: Optional: For BYO VPC clusters, you can select a subnet to create a Single-AZ machine pool. If the subnet is out of your cluster creation subnets, there must be a tag with a key `kubernetes.io/cluster/<infra-id>` and value `shared`. Customers can obtain the Infra ID by using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`--subnet <subnet_id>`:: Optional: For BYO VPC clusters, you can select a subnet to create a single-AZ machine pool. If the subnet is out of your cluster creation subnets, there must be a tag with a key `kubernetes.io/cluster/<infra-id>` and value `shared`. Customers can obtain the Infra ID by running the following command:
```

Reviewer: Additionally, "BYO VPC" needs to be spelled out, as it is the first mention of the acronym. "Optional" should be bold. And, finally, can you re-word the sentence that starts with "If the subnet is out of your cluster..."? It is very wordy and doesn't quite make sense.

Author: I've expanded BYO VPC but I haven't authored this text so can't rephrase it easily.
Added an AI suggestion, will check with the SMEs:

> If you select a subnet that was not specified during the initial cluster creation, you must tag the subnet with the key `kubernetes.io/cluster/<infra-id>` and value `shared`.

Reviewer: I like your new suggestion.

+

> [source,terminal]

Reviewer: I definitely don't like a command (and basically an entire procedure because it is a one procedure command), tucked away inside this list. I know it is how it is in the original documentation, so we'll leave it for now.

----
$ rosa describe cluster -c <cluster name>|grep "Infra ID:"
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
Infra ID:                   mycluster-xqvj7
----
--

.Example

The following example creates a machine pool called `capres` that uses the `c5.xlarge` instance type and has 1 compute node replica. The example also adds a Capacity Reservation ID:

> 

Reviewer: No worries. Just leave it as "Example" then. No sense making tons of extra work for yourself.

[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create machinepool --name capres --replicas 1 --capacity-reservation-id capacity-reservation-id --subnet subnet-id -c hcp-cap-res --instance-type c5.xlarge
----

> *Example output*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example output
```

[source,terminal]
----
I: Checking available instance types for machine pool 'capres'
I: Machine pool 'capres' created successfully on hosted cluster 'hcp-cap-res'
----

.Verification

You can list all machine pools on your cluster or describe individual machine pools.

> . List the available machine pools on your cluster:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. List the available machine pools on your cluster by running the following command:
```

> . List the available machine pools on your cluster:

Reviewer: Since these are options, not really a sequential procedure, they should be a bulleted, not numerical list.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa list machinepools --cluster hcp-cap-res
----

. Describe the information of a specific machine pool in your cluster:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ rosa describe machinepool --cluster hcp-cap-res --machinepool capres

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ rosa describe machinepool --cluster <cluster_name> --machinepool <machine_pool_name>
```
Again, check to make sure this is accurate.

----
ID:                         capres
Cluster ID:                 cluster-id
Autoscaling:                No
Desired replicas:           1
Current replicas:           1
Instance type:              c5.xlarge
Labels:
Tags:                       red-hat-managed=true, api.openshift.com/environment=production, api.openshift.com/id=cluster-id, api.openshift.com/legal-entity-id=legal-entity-id, api.openshift.com/name=hcp-cap-res, api.openshift.com/nodepool-hypershift=hcp-cap-res-capres, api.openshift.com/nodepool-ocm=capres, red-hat-clustertype=rosa
Taints:
Availability zone:          us-east-1a
Subnet:                     subnet-id
Disk Size:                  300 GiB
Version:                    4.19.10
EC2 Metadata Http Tokens:   optional
Autorepair:                 Yes
Tuning configs:
Kubelet configs:
Additional security group IDs:
Node drain grace period:
Capacity Reservation:
    - ID:                   capacity-reservation-id
    - Type:                 OnDemand
Management upgrade:
    - Type:                 Replace
    - Max surge:            1
    - Max unavailable:      0
Message:                    Minimum availability requires 1 replicas, current 1 available
----

> . Verify that the machine pool is included in the output and the configuration includes the Capacity Reservation ID and type.

Reviewer: Is the above step necessary? I would remove it for the sake of minimalism. If they are completing a "verification" process, obviously, they will verify.

* You installed and configured the latest {rosa-cli} on your workstation.
* You logged in to your Red{nbsp}Hat account using the {rosa-cli}.
* You created a {product-title} cluster of version 4.19 or above.
* A cluster must already have a machine pool that is not using a Capacity Reservation or taints. This machine pool mush have at least 2 worker nodes.
* You have a Capacity Reservation ID and capacity is reserved in the same Availability Zone as your cluster.

.Procedure

To add a machine pool with reserved capacity, create the machine pool and define the instance type, compute (also known as worker) node count, and the Capacity Reservation ID:

--
[source,terminal]
----
$ rosa create machinepool --cluster=<cluster-name> \
                          --name=<machine_pool_id> \
                          --replicas=<replica_count> \
                          --capacity-reservation-id cr-<capacity-reservation-id> \
                          --instance-type=<instance_type> \
                          --labels=<key>=<value>,<key>=<value> \
                          --taints=<key>=<value>:<effect>,<key>=<value>:<effect> \
                          --disk-size=<disk_size> \

>                           --availability-zone=<availability_zone_name> \

Reviewer 2: --availability-zone is not supported on ROSA HCP clusters. So leave this one out. 
I'd rather suggest to use only the fields that are "required" + the capacity-reservation-id. Please refer to my example in the JIRA.

Reviewer 2: This is because a) creating machine pool doesn't require any other fields such as labels or taints. b) by repeating unneeded things in many place, we're adding chances of having to change at many places when we introduce new feature(s).

Author: > --availability-zone is not supported on ROSA HCP clusters. So leave this one out. 
ROSA HCP docs mention this option in [Creating a machine pool using the ROSA CLI](https://docs.redhat.com/en/documentation/red_hat_openshift_service_on_aws/4/html-single/cluster_administration/index#creating_machine_pools_cli_rosa-managing-worker-nodes) 

Would you recommend that I open a docs bug to investigate and probably remove --availability-zone?

> I'd rather suggest to use only the fields that are "required" + the capacity-reservation-id.

Thanks for flagging this. I kept all optional arguments "for user convenience" so that they won't need to look for information in adjacent docs. That being said, I agree that repeating content is suboptimal, docs aim at reusing content and not repeating it.

Let's keep only the required options here, and I'll open an additional OSDOCS issue to address restructuring of the _Creating a machine pool using the ROSA CLI_ doc, it repeats other things. Ideally we should have all this content in 1 place, including Cap Res content.

+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
ID:                         capres
Cluster ID:                 2lteg6fen5n7h66onav584ic5l2bijkn
Autoscaling:                No
Desired replicas:           1
Current replicas:           1
Instance type:              c5.xlarge
Labels:
Tags:                       red-hat-managed=true, api.openshift.com/environment=production, api.openshift.com/id=2lteg6fen5n7h66onav584ic5l2bijkn, api.openshift.com/legal-entity-id=1MpZfnmsZeUWjWHg7XRgP15dM9e, api.openshift.com/name=hcp-cap-res, api.openshift.com/nodepool-hypershift=hcp-cap-res-capres, api.openshift.com/nodepool-ocm=capres, red-hat-clustertype=rosa
Taints:
Availability zone:          us-east-1a
Subnet:                     subnet-0482d3f9228d1ba17
Disk Size:                  300 GiB
Version:                    4.19.10
EC2 Metadata Http Tokens:   optional
Autorepair:                 Yes
Tuning configs:
Kubelet configs:
Additional security group IDs:
Node drain grace period:
Capacity Reservation:
    - ID:                   cr-03be1bb5b920a7d4f
    - Type:                 OnDemand
Management upgrade:
    - Type:                 Replace
    - Max surge:            1
    - Max unavailable:      0

> Message:                    Minimum availability requires 1 replicas, current 0 available

Reviewer 2: This should read (I forgot to fix in the example I gave, sorry)
`Minimum availability requires 1 replicas, current 1 available`
